what's up for februari planetary pairs
just in time for Valentine's Day hello
and welcome I'm Jane Houston Jones from
NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory in
Pasadena California if you wake up early
mid month you'll see the moon glide by
Saturn in the south-southeast an hour
before dawn keep looking over the next
two mornings and you'll see the crescent
moon bookend mercury very close to the
horizon and those are not the only
meetups between solar system bodies this
month Venus traditional goddess of love
attracts Mars though their closest
encounter happens a week after
Valentine's Day on the 21st on the 21st
the two planets are just half a degree
apart that's the width of the moon even
through modest modern telescopes today's
astronomers have a view that would have
stunned Galileo in 1609 Galileo learned
of the invention of the telescope and
began to make his own over the next
months and years he observed the Moon
Venus Mars Saturn several star clusters
sun spots on the Sun and Jupiter this is
the very best month to observe Jupiter
it reaches opposition on februari 6th
and is visible all month long Jupiter's
moons perform their ballet just as they
did when Galileo observed them in 1610
using modern telescopes you'll be able
to see the moon's pass in front of and
behind one another as they march across
the planet casting tiny shadows it's
also a great month to view the main belt
asteroid Juno through telescopes you'll
find it near the pretty collection of
stars known as the beehive cluster you
can learn more about the history of the
solar system and discoveries at solar
system NASA gov and you can learn about
all of NASA's missions at WWDC gov
that's all for this month I'm Jane
Houston Jones
you